[analyzer][docs] Document the `optin.performance.Padding` checker (#86411)
llvm/llvm-project: clang/docs/analyzer/checkers.rst

.. _optin-performance-Padding:

> optin.performance.Padding (PaddingChecker)

Reviewer: It should be the languages within the parens, that the checker supports.
I think this checker applies for C, C++ and probably even for ObjC as well.

Author: Thank you so much for your valuable feedbacks i will update it as you said.

> """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Reviewer: This line should be aligned with the line above.

Check for excessively padded structs.

> .. code-block:: objc

Reviewer: This code is rather c.

 struct TestStruct {
      int data1;   // 4 bytes
      char data2;  // 1 byte

>       char padding[27];  // 27 bytes of padding

Reviewer: This is a field, thus it shouldn't be counted as padding.

    };  // Total size: 32 bytes 
  

>   void TestFunction() {

Reviewer: All lines in the example block should be indented nicely in a consistent manner.
As of now, the indentation level varies.

      struct TestStruct struct1;  // Warning is generated due to excessive padding.
    }

   // Reports are only generated if the excessive padding exceeds 'AllowedPad' in bytes.

  // AllowedPad: Default Value: 24 bytes

>    Usage: `AllowedPad=<value>`

Reviewer: In other places we use double backticks. Why do you use one where?

.. code-block:: c

   #include <stdio.h>
   // #pragma pack(1) // Uncomment it to disable structure padding
   struct TestStruct {
       char data1;  // 1 byte
       char data2;  // 1 byte
       int data3;   // 4 bytes
   };             // Total size: 6 bytes
   
   int main () {
       struct TestStruct struct1;
       printf("Structure size: %d",sizeof(struct1)); // Structure size: 8
       return 0;
   }
   
Total memory used is 8 bytes due to structure padding. In this case, padding is of 2 bytes. Padding is done to decrease the number of CPU cycles needed to access data members of the structure, it increases the performance of the processor but at the penalty of memory.
Padding can be disabled by using the pragma directive.
Padding can also be decreased by putting data members of the structure in descending order of their size.

> Reports are only generated if the excessive padding exceeds ``AllowedPad`` in bytes. AllowedPad is the threshold value of padding.

Author: I will write everything in described form.

> Reports are only generated if the excessive padding exceeds ``AllowedPad`` in bytes. AllowedPad is the threshold value of padding.

Author: @steakhal, if fields are in optimal order that is widest datatype first,still If the padding between two fields exceeds this value, the analyzer will issue a warning indicating that there's excessive padding within the structure.
Okay, so i will write it in the documentation in described form.
Please correct me if i am wrong

AllowedPad Option:
- Default Value: 24 bytes

> - Usage: ``AllowedPad=<value>``

Reviewer: I think you could just drop this, and just mention the default value in the previous paragraph.
Maybe add a note like:
> To enable set this option from the command-line, pass the `-analyzer-config optin.performance.Padding:AllowedPad=24` option.

Author: Okay, i will do the changes as you said.

Author: @steakhal @AtariDreams Please review it once. Thank you.

.. _optin-performance-Padding:

optin.performance.Padding (C, C++, ObjC)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Check for excessively padded structs.

This checker detects structs with excessive padding, which can lead to wasted
memory thus decreased performance by reducing the effectiveness of the
processor cache. Padding bytes are added by compilers to align data accesses
as some processors require data to be aligned to certain boundaries. On others,
unaligned data access are possible, but impose significantly larger latencies.

To avoid padding bytes, the fields of a struct should be ordered by decreasing
by alignment. Usually, its easier to think of the ``sizeof`` of the fields, and
ordering the fields by ``sizeof`` would usually also lead to the same optimal
layout.

> In rare cases, one can use the ``#pragma pack(1)`` directive to enforce a packed
> layout too, but it is discouraged and the reordering of fields should be
> preferred.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In rare cases, one can use the ``#pragma pack(1)`` directive to enforce a packed
layout too, but it can significantly increase the access times, so reordering the
fields is usually a better solution.

```

.. code-block:: cpp

 // warn: Excessive padding in 'struct NonOptimal' (35 padding bytes, where 3 is optimal)
 struct NonOptimal {
   char c1;
   // 7 bytes of padding
   std::int64_t big1; // 8 bytes
   char c2;
   // 7 bytes of padding
   std::int64_t big2; // 8 bytes
   char c3;
   // 7 bytes of padding
   std::int64_t big3; // 8 bytes
   char c4;
   // 7 bytes of padding
   std::int64_t big4; // 8 bytes
   char c5;
   // 7 bytes of padding
 };
 static_assert(sizeof(NonOptimal) == 4*8+5+5*7);

 // no-warning: The fields are nicely aligned to have the minimal amount of padding bytes.
 struct Optimal {
   std::int64_t big1; // 8 bytes
   std::int64_t big2; // 8 bytes
   std::int64_t big3; // 8 bytes
   std::int64_t big4; // 8 bytes
   char c1;
   char c2;
   char c3;
   char c4;
   char c5;
   // 3 bytes of padding
 };
 static_assert(sizeof(Optimal) == 4*8+5+3);

>  // no-warning: Enforcing bitpacked representation.
>  // Access times will have signifficant overhead. Prefer reordering the fields instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 // no-warning: Bit packing representation is also accepted by this checker, but
 // it can significantly increase access times, so prefer reordering the fields.
```
